The site is a new solar power plant that was commissioned in February 2023 in Almería (Spain, 36° 55' 51'' N - 2° 28' 18'' W), with an installed capacity of 3.8 MW, directly connected to the grid. 
The climate classification of Almería is between a hot semi-arid and a hot desert climate (BSh/BWh) and is known to be one of the driest cities in Europe. 
The PV plant itself is located in a climate area qualified as hot desert (BWh). Hot desert climate can be found, among other places, in the deserts of Northern and Southern Africa (i.e. Sahara and Kalahari Desert), West-Asia (i.e. Arabian Desert), South Asia (in Iran, Pakistan and north India), Australia, or the coast of Chile and Peru. This type of climate usually presents clear sky and very high potential for solar power production. 

The grid-connected photovoltaic power plant consists of a total of 9,072 monocrystalline panels, mounted on a fixed support in the province of Almería, Spain, with a tilt angle of 22° and an azimuth of -2°. The installed solar panels are bifacial monocrystalline Longi (Hi-MO4 LR4-72HBD-440M) with an efficiency of 20.2% at STC. They are connected to a Freesum inverter (Power Electronics), commercial reference FS3670KH000015, with an efficiency of 98.45%. Each module has a power of 440 W, resulting in a total installed capacity of 3,992 kWp, occupying a net area of 54,000 m². Performance and energy output measurements, both on the AC and DC sides, have been conducted using the OpenZmeter device [52], an open-source system for smart energy metering and power quality analysis. The OpenZmeter device is designed to comply with international standards such as IEC 61000-4-30 and EN 50160. OpenZmeter measures voltage in single or three-phase systems with an accuracy of up to 0.1%, including DC systems. It supports standard frequencies of 50/60Hz and can measure with a resolution of up to 10 mHz. Current measurement is determined by the selected external probe, including options like current transformers, Hall Effect sensors, and Rogowski coils. These probes allow for virtually unlimited current values, provided they comply with permitted input levels. OpenZmeter is configured to store data in an internal circular database with different aggregation periods. It stores current and voltage data for 120 days with a sampling rate of 3 seconds and 1 minute, respectively. Additionally, it stores aggregated data for 360 days with periods of 10 minutes and 1 hour for current and voltage, and 15 minutes and 1 hour for power measurements. In this installation, 4000A Rogowski coils and 40A current transformers were used for each of the strings. Measurements were taken in AC, and current, voltage, and power values from the inverter were recorded in parallel via Modbus communication. The inverter comprises 6 generation modules, with a total of 112 current measurements, one for each string, and 14 DC voltage measurements in each of the aggregation boxes. The analysed data consists of energy produced by the photovoltaic panels, recorded at various aggregation periods. Power production was calculated by summing the energies from lower aggregation levels. For example, hourly production was obtained by summing the four 15-minute intervals for each phase. During data collection, there were recorded information losses due to communication issues, protection trips in different string lines, as well as technical maintenance and breakdowns. For instance, on September 2nd, a major inverter failure caused the plant to shut down. After maintenance, the plant was restored but with only 5 operational stages of the inverter, as one stage failed and needed replacement. During this period, the system operated at 80% capacity until the failed module was replaced on September 14th.